# Contents
- [Publications](#publications)
- [Software](#software)

<a name="publications"></a>
# Publications
- Zeng K, Charlesworth B, Hobolth A. 2021. Studying models of balancing selection using phase-type theory. Genetics *in the press*. (Click here to access the associated R package bls).

- Hayes K, Barton HJ, Zeng K. 2020. A study of faster-Z evolution in the great tit (Parus major). Genome Bio Evol 12:210–222. 

- Olofsson JK, Dunning LT, Lundgren MR, Barton HJ, Thompson J, Cuff N, Ariyarathne M, Yakandawala D, Sotelo G, Zeng K, Osborne CP, Nosil P, Christin P-A. 2019. Population-specific selection on standing variation generated by lateral gene transfers in a grass. Curr Bio 29:3921-3927.

- Barton HJ, Zeng K. 2019. The impact of natural selection on short insertion and deletion variation in the great tit genome. Genome Bio Evol 11:1514–1524.

- Kim K-W*, Jackson BC*, Zhang H, Toews D, Taylor S, Greig E, Lovette I, Liu M, Davison A, Griffith S, Zeng K, Burke T. 2019. Genetics and evidence for balancing selection of a sex-linked colour polymorphism in a songbird. Nat Commun 10:1852 (* co-first authors).

- Zeng K, Jackson BC, Barton HJ. 2019. Methods for estimating demography and detecting between-locus differences in the effective population size and mutation rate. Mol Biol Evol 36:423-433.

- Barton HJ, Zeng K. 2018. New methods for inferring the distribution of fitness effects for INDELs and SNPs. Mol Biol Evol 35:1536–1546.

- Corcoran P, Gossmann TI, Barton HJ, The Great Tit HapMap Consortium, Slate J, Zeng K. 2017. Determinants of the efficacy of natural selection on coding and noncoding variability in two passerine species. Genome Bio Evol 9:2987-3007.

- Evans BJ, Tosi AJ, Zeng K, Dushoff J, Corvelo A, Melnick DJ. 2017. Speciation over the edge: Gene flow among non-human primate species across a formidable biogeographic barrier. R Soc Open Sci 4:170351.

- Jackson BC, Campos JL, Haddrill PR, Charlesworth B, Zeng K. 2017. Variation in the intensity of selection on codon bias over time causes contrasting patterns of base composition evolution in Drosophila. Genome Biol Evol 9:102-123. 

- Nagylaki T, Zeng K. 2016. Clines with partial panmixia across a geographical barrier in an environmental pocket. Theor Popul Biol 110:1-11.

- Laine VN*, Gossmann TI*, Schachtschneider KM*, Garroway CJ, Madsen O, Verhoeven KJF, de Jager V, Megens H-J, Warren WC, Minx P, Crooijmans RPMA, Corcoran P, The Great Tit Hapmap Consortium, Sheldon BC, Slate J, Zeng K, van Oers K, Visser ME, Groenen MAM. Evolutionary signals of selection on cognition from the great tit genome and methylome. 2016. Nat Commun 7:10474 (* co-first authors).

- Küpper C, Stocks M, Risse JE, dos Remedios N, Farrell LL, McRae SB, Morgan TC, Karlionova N, Pinchuk P, Verkuil YI, Kitaysky AS, Wingfield JC, Piersma T, Zeng K, Slate J, Blaxter M, Lank DB, Burke T. 2016. A supergene determines highly divergent male reproductive morphs in the ruff. Nat Genet 48:79-83.

- Zeng K, Corcoran P. 2015. The effects of background and interference selection on patterns of genetic variation in subdivided populations. Genetics 201:1539-54.

- Jackson BC, Campos JL, Zeng K. 2015. The effects of purifying selection on patterns of genetic differentiation between Drosophila melanogaster populations. Heredity 114:163-174.

- Gossmann TI, Santure AW, Sheldon BC, Slate J, Zeng K. 2014. Highly variable recombinational landscape modulates efficacy of natural selection in birds. Genome Biol Evol 6: 2061-2075.

- Evans B, Zeng K, Esselstyn JA, Charlesworth B, Melnick DJ. 2014. Reduced representation genome sequencing suggests low diversity on the sex chromosomes of tonkean macaque monkeys. Mol Biol Evol 31: 2425-2440.

- Nagylaki T, Zeng K. 2014. Clines with complete dominance and partial panmixia in an unbounded unidimensional habitat. Theor Popul Biol 93:63-74.

- Campos JL, Zeng K, Parker DJ, Charlesworth B, Haddrill PR. 2013. Codon Usage Bias and Effective Population Sizes on the X Chromosome versus the Autosomes in Drosophila melanogaster. Mol Biol Evol 30: 811-823.

- Zeng K. 2013. A coalescent model of background selection with recombination, demography and variation in selection coefficients. Heredity 110: 363-371.

- Fang S, Yukilevich R, Chen Y, Turissini DA, Zeng K, Boussy IA, Wu CI. 2012. Incompatibility and competitive exclusion of genomic segments between sibling Drosophila species. PLoS Genet 8: e1002795.

- Zeng K. 2012. The application of population genetics in the study of codon usage bias. In: Cannarozzi GM, Schneider A, editors. Codon evolution: mechanisms and models. Oxford University Press.

- de Proce SM, Zeng K, Betancourt AJ, Charlesworth B. 2012. Selection on codon usage and base composition in Drosophila americana. Biol Lett 8: 82-85.

- Qiu S*, Zeng K*, Slotte T*, Wright S, Charlesworth D. 2011. Reduced efficacy of natural selection on codon usage bias in selfing Arabidopsis and Capsella species. Genome Biol. Evol. 3: 868-880. (* co-first author).

- Zeng K, Charlesworth B. 2011. The joint effects of background selection and genetic recombination on local gene genealogies. Genetics 189: 251-266.

- Haddrill PR, Zeng K, Charlesworth B. 2011. Determinants of synonymous and nonsynonymous variability in three species of Drosophila. Mol. Biol. Evol. 28:1731-1743.

- Zeng K, Charlesworth B. 2010. The effects of demography and linkage on the estimation of selection and mutation parameters. Genetics 186:1411–1424.

- Qiu S, Bergero R, Zeng K, Charlesworth D. 2010. Patterns of codon usage bias in Silene latifolia. Mol. Biol. Evol. 28:771-780.

- Zeng K. 2010. A simple multi-allele model and its application to identifying preferred/unpreferred codons using polymorphism data. Mol. Biol. Evol. 27:1327-1337.

- Zeng K, Charlesworth B. 2010. Studying patterns of recent evolution at synonymous sites and intronic sites in Drosophila melanogaster. J. Mol. Evol. 70:116-128.

- Sharp P, Emery L, Zeng K. 2010. Forces that influence the evolution of codon bias. Phil. Trans. R. Soc. B 365:1203-1212.

- Zeng K, Charlesworth B. 2009. Estimating selection intensity on synonymous codon usage in a non-equilibrium population. Genetics 183: 651-662.

- Lu J, Fu Y, Kumar S, Shen Y, Zeng K, Xu A, Carthew R, Wu C.-I. 2008. Adaptive evolution of newly emerged micro-RNA genes in Drosophila. Mol. Biol. Evol. 25: 929-938.

- Zhou R*, Zeng K*, Wu W, Chen X, Yang Z, Shi S, Wu C.-I. 2007. Population genetics of speciation in non-model organisms: I. Ancestral polymorphism in mangroves. Mol. Biol. Evol. 24: 2746-2754. (* co-first authors).

- Zeng K, Shi S, Wu C.-I. 2007. Compound tests for the detection of hitchhiking under positive selection. Mol. Biol. Evol. 24: 1898-1908.

- Zeng K, Mano S, Shi S, Wu C.-I. 2007. Comparisons of site- and haplotype-frequency methods for detecting positive selection. Mol. Biol. Evol. 24: 1562-1574.

- Zeng K, Fu Y.-X, Shi S, Wu C.-I. 2006. Statistical tests for detecting positive selection by utilizing high-frequency variants. Genetics 174: 1431-1439.

- Tang T, Lu J, Huang J, He J, McCouch SR, Shen Y, Zeng K, Purugganan MD, Shi S, Wu C.-I. 2006. Genomic variation in rice: genesis of highly polymorphic linkage blocks during domestication. PLoS Genet. 2: e199.

- Liu X, Fu Y, Liu Z, Lin B, Xie Y, Liu Y, Xu Y, Lin J, Fan X, Dong M, Zeng K, Wu C.-I, Xu A. 2006. An ancient balanced polymorphism in a regulatory region of human major histocompatibility complex is retained in Chinese minorities but lost worldwide. Am. J. Hum. Genet. 78: 393-400.

- Shi S, Huang Y, Zeng K, Tan F, He H, Huang J, Fu Y.-X. 2005. Molecular phylogenetic analysis of mangroves: independent evolutionary origins of vivipary and salt secretion. Mol. Phylogenet. Evol. 34: 159-166.


<a name="software"></a>
# Software
Click the package names to download.

## [anavar](https://github.com/drkaizeng/publications-and-software/blob/main/anavar/anavar1.4.zip)
This computer package implements several methods for estimating parameters by analysing variants (hence anavar) in population genomic datasets. These include: (1) the methods for inferring the distribution of fitness effects (DFE) for INDELs and SNPs described in Barton and Zeng (2018), (2) the method for inferring the DFE for SNPs by Eyre-Walker et al. (2006; Genetics 173:891-900), and (3) the methods for inferring the strength of GC-biased gene conversion (gBGC) by Glémin et al. (2015; Genome Res 25:1215-1228).

 

bls
This R package implements the phase-type methods described in Zeng et al. (2020). As detailed in the manual, it contains functions for obtaining the total branch length and the site frequency spectrum for the following models: (1) an equilibrium model of long-term balancing selection, (2) a model with long-term balancing selection and changes in population size, (3) a model of recent balancing selection, (4) a selective sweep model (complete/incomplete), (5) neutral models with changes in population size, (6) neutral models with two demes and changes in migration rates and/or deme sizes, and (7) isolation with migration models.

 

DH
This computer package can carry out the following tests: Tajima’s D, Fay and Wu’s H, the Ewens-Watterson test, the E test, the compound tests (DH, HEW and DHEW). These were describied in Zeng et al. (2006, 2007a, b).

 

Evans et al. (2014)
This computer package contains an extended version of the program used to obtain the results reported in the above paper. Briefly, it can be used to estimate the X:A ratio of effective population size, taking into account changes in population size and weak selection (e.g., selection on codon bias).

 

Forwards
A program for generating samples under selection and demographic models using forwards-in-time simulations. This algorithm was used in Zeng and Charlesworth (2011), Zeng (2013), and Zeng and Corcoran (2015).

 

msbgs
A program for generating samples under background selection models using the structured coalescent (Zeng and Charlesworth 2011; Zeng 2013; Zeng and Corcoran 2015). The following important biological factors can be included in the simulations: sites under purifying selection (including a distribution of fitness effects), linked neutral sites, and demography (changes in population size and population subdivision).

 

VarNe
This program implements the methods described in Zeng and Jackson (2018). These methods can infer demography and detect between-locus differences in N_e (the effective population size) and u (the mutation rate).

 

Zeng and Charlesworth (2009)
This computer package implements the two-allele model with reversible mutation, selection, and varying population size described in Zeng and Charlesworth (2009). It can be used to infer demographic, detect selection on codon usage, and find evidence for GC-biased gene conversion.
